#summary Instructions for getting started with the sample application
#labels Featured

== Introduction ==

First of all, I encourage you (read as "urge you") to [http://www.manning.com/affiliate/idevaffiliate.php?id=647 purchase] the book to get all of the gory details on how to set up, develop, and deploy the sample application. That being said, even with the book, there is going to be extra information that I am going to want to relate to you. I will do that on this wiki, starting with this introductory page.

== General approach ==

The source code of the book is organized in the root of an imaginary user named Tommy Twoputt, whose Unix/Linux/OS X username is twoputt and home directory is /home/twoputt. However, in no way does that mean that you must develop the application on those platforms. Working from the context of a home directory helps to make a connection with you, the developer.

I make recommendations about where to put libraries and how to organize your development space. You don't have to take these recommendations. But being a reader, I have always found source code distributions from books to be cold and disconnected.

...more later...

== Organization ==

{{{
<root>
  +- etc         database scripts, configuration files
  +- opt         directory where third-party applications are extracted
  +- projects    working directory while studying a stage
  +- prototypes  complete application which is free to run ahead of the book
  +- stages      snapshot of the application at the end of each chapter
}}}